 On the 14th day of October, Mr. Gandhi, a number of other Indians, and myself were sentenced to periods of imprisonment with hard labour at Volksrust. On the morning of the 15th Mr. Gandhi, I and 13 others, together with about 15 Natives,were taken out to work on the side of agricultural show ground close to the fence which divides the ground from the public road. Our work there was to dig and remove stones. We were quite close to the road, and anybody who passed could easily see us and here distinctly what was going on. A number of Europeans and Natives did pass by. The ground is within the Municipality of Volksrust, and the road is used by a number of people. The European warder who was in charge of the Indian prisoners kept on urging Mr. Gandhi to work harder and harder, though Mr. Gandhi was doing his best. All this might have been clearly heard by passers by. The exact words used were Come on, Gandhi; come on, Gandhi. Mr. Gandhi replied that he was doing his utmost, and was even trying to do more. The Warder kept urging Mr. Gandhi when he saw Mr. Gandhi stoop to pick up earth to rub on the palms of his hands, which were getting raw through blistering. When after nine hours almost continuous work, with a delay of one hour between 12 and 1, Mr. Gandhi returned to the gaol, he was so stiff with pain and fatigue that he could scarcely move. At 12 oclock on this day, one of the Indian prisoners who had fainted through over strain, heat and lack of water, which the Warder did not allow him to get, was taken in a sanitary cart to the gaol. Mr. Gandhi accompanied him in this cart. On the afternoon of that day, we were under the charge of a Native Warder, who also kept urging Mr. Gandhi to go on working, although he was doing his best. The words used were Come on, Gandhi; come on, Gandhi. Passers by could easily hear and see this. On the next day we were taken to a piece of ground near the road side, almost opposite Mr. Suliman Ahmed Cajees store. Mr. Cajee who was standing in front of the store, could easily see and hear whatever was going on. This, of course, would be from the opposite side of the road, but passers by could come quite close to us. We were digging holes for trees. and worked on this day as on the previous day, for nine hours.