 but only between their religious principles. Let us also consider for a while why this comparison was made. The Muslims have charged the Maulana with having become a flatterer or worshipper of Gandhi. To worship Gandhi is to deify Gandhi, that is, to believe that there is nothing higher than Gandhi in this world. This amounts to professing Gandhis religion, and that was the charge against the Maulana. The Maulana gave the reply quoted above to meet this allegation of some Muslims. While trying to please the Muslims, did he annoy the Hindus? If the Maulana had uttered the above quoted sentence on some other occasion, he would not have been criticized at all. Hindu newspapers gave a distorted report of his speech. They represented that the Maulana considered an adulterous Muslim better than Mahatma Gandhi. We have seen that he did not say so. Moreover, in his letter to Swami Sharddhanand, he has expressed his belief that Mahatma Gandhi is the best man in the whole world. But he has assessed the religious principles of that Mahatma as lower than those of an adulterous Muslim. There is no contradiction at all in this. Moreover, almost the whole world recognizes the difference between persons and their principles. Christian friends close to me regard me as a very good man and yet, because they consider their religion better than mine, pray to God that I may become a Christian. I received a letter two or three weeks ago from one such friend in South Africa, in which he writes: I was glad to hear that you were released. I always pray for you that God may give you good sense, so that you may start believing in Jesus Christ and His power to effect deliverance. if you do so, your work would soon bear fruit. Thus, many Christian friends desire me to become a Christian. What do many Hindus do? Do they not consider the principles of their own religion to be far superior to those of the noblest Christian on Muslim? If they do not, will they give their daughter in marriage to the best Muslim or Christian? Again, they would not give her even to the best among Hindus if he does not belong to their own denomination or sub caste. What does that suggest? They believe their own religion to be better than any other. In my humble opinion, the Maulana has proved the purity of his heart and his faith in his own religion by expressing his view. He has, in fact, honoured me in two ways first, as a friend, secondly as a man. He has honoured me as a friend because he has taken it for granted